All right.
So this what we have right.
Parallel plates.
Plus cue negative cue we have a voltage V and this was the equation we got.
Now remember charge on the plates is Q charge on one plate.
Right on one plate we have opposite charge on the other plate.
This here was measured in cool homes.
What else V.
This is voltage between the plates although you just write it as just one variable it's really delta
v
guy and this is what we call the capacitance
the capacitance is really the constant of proportionality.
It's a constant of proportionality.
Okay.
Between the charge and the voltage between the plates.
So V is measured in volts.
We measure this in volts.
The units here are charge.
So that means that if I wrote a an expression for capacitance again you would have see the capacitance
again this see here refers to the charge the units of cool ohms so C would be evil equal to Q divided
by the voltage.
So in terms of its units the units of capacitance would be the units of Q divided by the units of volts.
So we could say this is in units of cool arms.
So let me just read it out here of cool arms divided by volts All right.
This is something we called a fair add.
We call this so one cool arm revolt is equivalent to one fair add we just kind of shorten it as FAA.
Okay so the units of capacitance
have to be measured in fair adds So those are the units.
So typical values might be sometimes they're pretty small but say 15 micro fare add.
You would read it like this.
Another example might be something really small.
Pico Fair at right you might measure something like this.
OK.
These are just kind of two examples over here of capacitance.
All right.
Now the other thing that's important here is we had an expression for this.
However we did it for parallel plates and only for parallel plates capacitors come in different geometries
one geometry is a parallel plate.
In that case the capacity to see you can write it as Epsilon 0 multiplied by a over D.
You can actually put a bracket around this thing because I want to show you two different terms.
This here is the constant right the permitted city of free space it's only a number.
We looked at up in the book.
This is associated to what is between the plates
if there's nothing between the plates.
That's the value
I'm going to see later on.
If we put a piece of glass wood or a dielectric an insulating material I can change the capacitance.
But for now we have nothing or just air between the plates.
So that's simply a number.
The next term right here look what it has for the parallel plate.
It has the area of the plate right the area and the other thing was the distance the distance d between
the plates so this here really only depends on the geometry of the capacitor of the device that we're
now we have to store charge OK.
So it really depends only on two things the capacitance and although this is the formula for parallel
plates if we looked at different examples of capacitors Another example would be kind of tubes.
If I had like a tube and on the outside here I would have another kind of a shell.
You can use an example like this as a capacitor.
In this case here the outside might have a charge q the inside conductor might have a charged negative
Q there would be some voltage v between the inside conductor and the outside conductor the capacitance
of this device can be written or the charge is directly proportional to the voltage between both of
those conductors.
Now you'd have a different formula for capacitance.
It would be more complicated because of the geometry is more complicated.
However it would still only depend on two things.
It would depend on what is between both of those conductors is it airfield or is there something else.
And it would depend on the geometry.
What is the radius for example of these tubes.
So again capacitance depends on what's between the plates and the geometry of the object that you're
looking at.
It does not depend on the charge or the voltage right.
You don't see charger voltage actually in this expression for capacitance capacitance is just the constant
of proportionality between charge and voltage.